----------------------------------------------------------------------

            ICFP 2014, THE 19TH ACM SIGPLAN INTERNATIONAL
                 CONFERENCE ON FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING

                       AUGUST 31 – SEPTEMBER 6
                           Gothenburg, Sweden

                        WORKSHOP PROPOSAL FORM

    Note: for workshops that were affiliated with ICFP in 2013, a copy
    of last year's completed proposal form can be obtained for
    reference, by emailing icfp2014-workshops@ugent.be.

----------------------------------------------------------------------


NAME OF THE WORKSHOP:

3rd ACM SIGPLAN Workshop on Functional High-Performance Computing (FHPC'14)

GOALS OF THE WORKSHOP:

The FHPC workshop aims at bringing together researchers exploring uses
of functional (or more generally, declarative or high-level) programming
technology in application domains where large-scale computations arise
naturally and high performance is essential. Such computations would
typically -- but not necessarily -- involve execution on highly parallel
systems ranging from multi-core multi-processor systems to graphics
accelerators (GPGPUs), reconfigurable hardware (FPGAs), large-scale
compute clusters or any combination thereof. It is becoming apparent
that radically new and well-founded methodologies for programming such
systems are required to address their inherent complexity and to
reconcile execution performance, portability, programming productivity and program correctness.

The aim of the meeting is to enable sharing of results, experiences, and novel
ideas about how high-level, declarative techniques can help make
high-performance codes dealing with computationally challenging problems more
transparent, maintainable and portable, while at the same time approaching
(or even exceeding) the performance of machine-oriented imperative
implementations.

The first FHPC workshop was held in 2012, the second in 2013, both colocated with ICFP.  The acceptance rate has been approx. 50%.

ORGANIZERS OF THE WORKSHOP:

   (Please complete the following table for each organizer.)
   
   Name    : Fritz Henglein or Jost Berhold
   Address : University of Copenhagen
   Email   : henglein@diku.dk, berthold@diku.dk
   Phone   : +45-30589576
   Mobile  : +45-30589576


NAMES OF POTENTIAL PROGRAM COMMITTEE MEMBERS, WITH AFFILIATIONS:

   (Note that this list must be reviewed by SIGPLAN, which includes
    checking for broad representation.

      http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Policies/Diversity

    Since SIGPLAN does sometimes request changes, PC invitations
    should wait until the workshop is approved.  Thus, you may
    wish to include alternate names, in case not all invitations
    are accepted.

    The ICFP Workshop Chairs will pass this proposed PC on to 
    SIGPLAN, and report back if there are any concerns.)

   The PC will consist of approximately 12 members, and consider the 
   SIGPLAN diversity policy.

   The following list of potential members, indicative of the scope of FHPC and 
   including previous members of FPHC committees.  We are aware of SIGPLAN
   requirements on rotation and composition of PC members. 



   Mary Sheeran, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden (PC chair, has accepted)
   Rita Loogen, U. Marburg, Germany
   Ben Lippmeier, U. of New South Wales, Australia
   Marco Aldinucci, University of Torino, Italy
    Manuel Chakravarty, University of New South Wales, Australia
    Andrzej Filinski, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
    Clemens Grelck, University of Amsterdam, Netherlands
    Gaétan Hains, University of Paris-Est, France
    Zhenjiang Hu, National Institute of Informatics, Japan
    Mike Giles, University of Oxford, UK
    Neal Glew, Intel, USA
    Ryan Newton, Indiana University, USA
    Satnam Singh, Google, USA
    Phil Trinder, Heriot-Watt University, UK
    Viktória Zsók, Eötvös Loránd University, Hungary
   Umut Acar, Carnegie Mellon U., USA 
   Anne Benoit, ENS Lyon, France
   Jost Berthold, U. Copenhagen, Denmark (co-chair)
   Guy Blelloch, Carnegie Mellon U., USA
   Sergei Gorlatch, U. Münster, Germany
   Clemens Grelck, U. Amsterdam, Netherlands (co-chair)
   Torsten Grust, U. Tübingen, Germany
   Kevin Hammond, University of St Andrews, UK
   Zhenjiang Hu, National Institute of Informatics, Tokyo, Japan
   Gabriele Keller, U. New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
   Jens Palsberg, U. California, Los Angeles, CA, USA
   Leaf Peterson, Intel, USA
   John Reppy, U. Chicago, USA
   Sven-Bodo Scholz, Heriot-Watt U., Edinburgh, UK
   Guy Steele, Oracle Labs, Burlington, MA, USA
   Satnam Singh, Google, USA
   Hans-Wolfgang Loidl, Heriot-Watt U., Edinburgh, UK

OTHER POTENTIAL ATTENDEES:

FHPC targets primarily programming language researchers interested 
functional programming languages and seeks to attract researchers and practitioners
working on mainstream HPC, parallel systems and applications of the

PLANS FOR THE CALL FOR PAPERS / PARTICIPATION:

The call for papers and call for participation will be published in relevant
mailing lists and websites, as well as personal solicitation by PC members.
A first call for papers should go out in late March 2014, with a submission
deadline in late May, author notification by mid-June, and camera-ready copy
due mid July.
The call for participation will go out as soon as the final program is
known. Depending on the number of submissions received, there may be room for
one or more high-profile invited talks, to further stimulate participation.
FHPC'12 and FHPC'13 featured invited talks and an expert panel.


EXPECTED NUMBER OF ATTENDEES:

FHPC'12 and FHPC'13 both attracted around 60 participants on the workshop day,
most of them also officially signed up to attend FHPC when registering.
We expect to attract an audience of similar size, around 60 participants.
At FHPC '13 attendance ranged between 40 and 70 depending on the talk, with the 2 invited
talks attracting most attendants.  

PLANNED LENGTH OF THE WORKSHOP:

1 (full) day

PLANS FOR PUBLICITY:

   (Including, but not limited to, web pages, mailing lists, and
   newsgroups.)

Aside from the call for papers and call for participation, FHPC 2014 will 
have a web presence in form of web pages containing CFP, general information,
programme, abstracts, and other material.
Previous instances of FHPC used the hiperfit.dk website. We intend to migrate
to independent webpages in 2014.


PLANS FOR A PUBLISHED PROCEEDINGS:

   (Three options are available: no proceedings, proceedings published
   by ACM, or proceedings published as a university technical report.
   In particular, using another publisher is not acceptable under the
   sponsorship terms.)

Like FHPC'12 and FHPC'13, FHPC'14 wishes to publish proceedings with
ACM, either in print or electronically and disseminated via ACM DL.

PREVIOUS VERSIONS OF THE WORKSHOP:

   Name                      : FHPC 2013
   Dates                     : 09/2013, co-located with ICFP 2013
   Location                  : Boston
   Organizers                : Clemens Grelck, Fritz Henglein (co-general chair), 
				Umut Acar, Jost Berthold (PC co-chairs)
   Website                   : http://hiperfit.dk/fhpc13.html
   Number of submissions     : 14
   Number of accepted papers : 8, and invited keynotes by Matthew Fluet
                               and Manuel Chakravarty
   Number of attendees       : ca 60
   Registration fee          : $200 (early reg.) -- day pass
   Budget information        : handled by ACM

   Name                      : FHPC 2012
   Dates                     : 09/2012, co-located with ICFP 2012
   Location                  : Copenhagen
   Organizers                : Clemens Grelck, Andrzej Filinski (PC co-chairs)
   Website                   : http://hiperfit.dk/fhpc12.html
   Number of submissions     : 15
   Number of accepted papers : 9, invited keynote by Paul Kelly
   Number of attendees       : 66
   Registration fee          : $200 (early reg.) -- day pass
   Budget information        : handled by ACM

FHPC 2012 emerged from an earlier series of HIPERFIT workshops with 
increasing visibility (see http://hiperfit.dk/workshops.html):


   Name                      : 1st HIPERFIT workshop (internal)
   Dates                     : May 25, 2011
   Location                  : University of Copenhagen
   Organizers                : HIPERFIT
   Website                   : http://hiperfit.dk/workshops/1st-workshop.html
   Number of submissions     : (internal and invited talks only)
   Number of accepted papers : 7 talks
   Number of attendees       : 60 (mostly partners and local students)
   Registration fee          : free
   Budget information        : ~500 EUR, covered by HIPERFIT

   Name                      : 2nd HIPERFIT workshop: Mathematical Finance 
                               meets Programming Languages and Systems
   Dates                     : December 1-2, 2011
   Location                  : University of Copenhagen
   Organizers                : HIPERFIT, in cooperation with 
                               Copenhagen Finance IT Region (www.cfir.dk)
   Website                   : http://hiperfit.dk/workshops/2nd-workshop.html
   Number of submissions     : (invited talks only)
   Number of accepted papers : 10 invited talks (international speakers)
   Number of attendees       : 90 registered participants
   Registration fee          : free
   Budget information        : ~5,000 EUR (mainly travel expenses for
                               invited speakers), covered by HIPERFIT

   Name                      : Workshop on Functional Programming in 
                               Quantitative Finance
   Dates                     : April 20-22, 2012
   Location                  : University of Chicago
   Organizers                : Stevanovich Center for Financial Mathematics,
                               U. Chicago, in cooperation with HIPEFIT
   Website                   : http://stevanovichcenter.uchicago.edu/conferences/fp/Fun2.html
   Number of submissions     : -
   Number of accepted papers : 15 invited talks and tutorials 
                               (international speakers)
   Number of attendees       : ~110 registered participants
   Registration fee          : free
   Budget information        : handled by Stevanovich Center, covered by
                               sponsoring, Stevanovich Center and HIPERFIT

WORKSHOP WEBSITE:

   (Please include the address that will be used for the workshop
   website, even if this site is not yet active or complete.)

http://hiperfit.dk/fhpc13.html

VIDEO RECORDING:

  (Do you want the workshop recorded, and if so why. ICFP 2014 has a
  Video Chair, and one event per day can be filmed. It may also be
  possible to arrange more cameras and people if needed.)

We would appreciate video recordings (if possible) to improve
visibility of the FHPC workshop in communities who do not follow ICFP
developments closely.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

   (If there is any additional information that you would like
   to make us aware of, please include the details here.  

   For example, you may wish to indicate a preference for particular
   dates, or that the workshop should not be run in parallel with
   certain other workshops; in such cases, please also include the
   reasons for your preference.

   As mentioned in the call for proposals, the workshops this year
   will occur on August 31 (the day before ICFP) and September 4-6,
   the three days after ICFP.)

Preferably the day after ICFP, September 4th.


SUBMISSION INFORMATION:

   The deadline for workshop proposals is NOVEMBER 15, 2013,
   and the completed form should be emailed to the ICFP 2014
   workshop co-chairs (Sam Tobin-Hochstadt and Tom Schrijvers),
   via email to icfp2014-workshops@ugent.be.

   Authors of workshop proposals will be notified of acceptance
   or rejection by DECEMBER 15, 2013.

   PLEASE NOTE:
   Organizers should await SIGPLAN approval of the included program
   committee membership prior to sending out PC invitations.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
